# Data Science portfolio
## [Project 1: Wine quality prediction](https://github.com/psharma0912/Data-Science-project/blob/main/Capstone_Wine_quality_prediction.ipynb)
Our main objective is to predict the quality of wine using machine learning through Python programming technique. A large dataset is considered and wine quality is modelled  through different parameters like fixed acidity, volatile acidity, citric acid, pH etc. In this project all these parameters were analysed through the different
Machine learning algorithms which helped us to rate the scale of wine from bad to good. Output obtained was further checked for correctness and model was optimised accordingly. It can support the wine expert evaluations and ultimately improve the production.
## [Project 2: Customer Retention Modeling and Strategy for Telecom domain](https://github.com/psharma0912/Telecom-churn-prediction/blob/main/Customer%20Retention%20Modeling%20and%20Strategy%20for%20Telecom%20domain.ipynb)
This project focusses on predicting the customer churn. Customer churn occurs when customers stop doing business with a company. As the cost of retaining an existing customer is far less than acquiring a new one, maintaining a healthy customer base is important for the success of any business. It is normally seen that the customers are very flexible when it comes to selecting options in the telecom industry, which has a high impact on the churn rate in this industry. Businesses usually have a lot of customers and cannot afford to spend much time on each and every customer hence it becomes extremely difficult to plan individualized customer retention strategies. The costs would be too high and would outweigh the extra revenue. But if a company could predict in advance which customers are at risk of leaving, they could focus customer retention efforts by directing them solely toward such "high risk" customers.
